updating the distributed architecture section (#561)
elastic/docs-content: deploy-manage/distributed-architecture/shard-allocation-relocation-recovery/index-level-shard-allocation.md

  - https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/current/index-modules-allocation.html
  - https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/current/shard-allocation-filtering.html
  - https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/current/recovery-prioritization.html
applies_to:
  stack:
---

# Index-level shard allocation

> In Elasticsearch, per-index settings allow you to control the allocation of shards to nodes through index-level shard allocation settings. These settings enable you to specify preferences or constraints for where shards of a particular index should reside. This includes allocating shards to nodes with specific attributes or avoiding certain nodes. This level of control helps optimize resource utilization, balance load, and ensure data redundancy and availability according to your deployment's specific requirements. In addition to the content in this article, there are additional resources:

Reviewer: Very minor but I don't think I've seen us refer to our pages as articles before:
```suggestion
In Elasticsearch, per-index settings allow you to control the allocation of shards to nodes through index-level shard allocation settings. These settings enable you to specify preferences or constraints for where shards of a particular index should reside. This includes allocating shards to nodes with specific attributes or avoiding certain nodes. This level of control helps optimize resource utilization, balance load, and ensure data redundancy and availability according to your deployment's specific requirements. For additional details, check out:
```

* [Shard allocation filtering](../../../deploy-manage/distributed-architecture/shard-allocation-relocation-recovery/index-level-shard-allocation.md): Controlling which shards are allocated to which nodes.
* [Delayed allocation](../../../deploy-manage/distributed-architecture/shard-allocation-relocation-recovery/delaying-allocation-when-node-leaves.md): Delaying allocation of unassigned shards caused by a node leaving.

> * [Total shards per node](asciidocalypse://docs/elasticsearch/docs/reference/elasticsearch/index-settings/total-shards-per-node.md): A hard limit on the number of shards from the same index per node.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [Total shards per node](elasticsearch://reference/elasticsearch/index-settings/total-shards-per-node.md): A hard limit on the number of shards from the same index per node.
```

> * [Data tier allocation](asciidocalypse://docs/elasticsearch/docs/reference/elasticsearch/index-settings/data-tier-allocation-settings.md): Controls the allocation of indices to [data tiers](../../../manage-data/lifecycle/data-tiers.md).

Reviewer: Looks like the right URL is https://github.com/elastic/elasticsearch/blob/main/docs/reference/elasticsearch/index-settings/data-tier-allocation.md
```suggestion
* [Data tier allocation](elasticsearch://reference/elasticsearch/index-settings/data-tier-allocation.md): Controls the allocation of indices to [data tiers](../../../manage-data/lifecycle/data-tiers.md).
```

## Index-level shard allocation filtering [shard-allocation-filtering]

> You can use shard allocation filters to control where {{es}} allocates shards of a particular index. These per-index filters are applied in conjunction with [cluster-wide allocation filtering](asciidocalypse://docs/elasticsearch/docs/reference/elasticsearch/configuration-reference/cluster-level-shard-allocation-routing-settings.md#cluster-shard-allocation-filtering) and [allocation awareness](../../../deploy-manage/distributed-architecture/shard-allocation-relocation-recovery/shard-allocation-awareness.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use shard allocation filters to control where {{es}} allocates shards of a particular index. These per-index filters are applied in conjunction with [cluster-wide allocation filtering](elasticsearch://reference/elasticsearch/configuration-reference/cluster-level-shard-allocation-routing-settings.md#cluster-shard-allocation-filtering) and [allocation awareness](../../../deploy-manage/distributed-architecture/shard-allocation-relocation-recovery/shard-allocation-awareness.md).
```

> Shard allocation filters can be based on [custom node attributes](asciidocalypse://docs/elasticsearch/docs/reference/elasticsearch/configuration-reference/node-settings.md#custom-node-attributes) or the built-in `_name`, `_host_ip`, `_publish_ip`, `_ip`, `_host`, `_id`, `_tier` and `_tier_preference` attributes. [Index lifecycle management](../../../manage-data/lifecycle/index-lifecycle-management.md) uses filters based on custom node attributes to determine how to reallocate shards when moving between phases.

Reviewer: This is now moved from asciidocalypse to elasticsearch repo (https://github.com/elastic/elasticsearch/blob/main/docs/reference/elasticsearch/configuration-reference/node-settings.md).  Ditto for the other places where asciidocalypse is referenced.
```suggestion
Shard allocation filters can be based on [custom node attributes](elasticsearch://reference/elasticsearch/configuration-reference/node-settings.md#custom-node-attributes) or the built-in `_name`, `_host_ip`, `_publish_ip`, `_ip`, `_host`, `_id`, `_tier` and `_tier_preference` attributes. [Index lifecycle management](../../../manage-data/lifecycle/index-lifecycle-management.md) uses filters based on custom node attributes to determine how to reallocate shards when moving between phases.
```

    For example, to move the `test` index to `big` nodes in `rack1`, you could specify:

    ```console
    PUT test/_settings
    {
      "index.routing.allocation.require.size": "big",
      "index.routing.allocation.require.rack": "rack1"
    }
    ```

### Index allocation filter settings [index-allocation-settings]

| Setting | Description |
|---|---|
|`index.routing.allocation.include.{{attribute}}`| Assign the index to a node whose `{{attribute}}` has at least one of the comma-separated values.|
|`index.routing.allocation.require.{{attribute}}`| Assign the index to a node whose `{{attribute}}` has *all* of the comma-separated values.|
|`index.routing.allocation.exclude.{{attribute}}`| Assign the index to a node whose `{{attribute}}` has *none* of the comma-separated values. |

The index allocation settings support the following built-in attributes:

| Attribute | Description|
| --- | --- |
|`_name`| Match nodes by node name |
|`_host_ip`| Match nodes by host IP address (IP associated with hostname) |
|`_publish_ip`| Match nodes by publish IP address |
|`_ip`| Match either `_host_ip` or `_publish_ip` |
| `_host`| Match nodes by hostname |
|`_id`| Match nodes by node id |

> |`_tier`| Match nodes by the node’s [data tier](../../../manage-data/lifecycle/data-tiers.md) role. For more details see [data tier allocation filtering](elasticsearch://reference/elasticsearch/index-settings/data-tier-allocation-settings.md) |

Reviewer: Think this is it: https://github.com/elastic/elasticsearch/blob/main/docs/reference/elasticsearch/index-settings/data-tier-allocation.md
```suggestion
|`_tier`| Match nodes by the node’s [data tier](../../../manage-data/lifecycle/data-tiers.md) role. For more details see [data tier allocation filtering](elasticsearch://reference/elasticsearch/index-settings/data-tier-allocation.md) |
```

> |`_tier`| Match nodes by the node’s [data tier](../../../manage-data/lifecycle/data-tiers.md) role. For more details see [data tier allocation filtering](asciidocalypse://docs/elasticsearch/docs/reference/elasticsearch/index-settings/data-tier-allocation-settings.md) |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|`_tier`| Match nodes by the node’s [data tier](../../../manage-data/lifecycle/data-tiers.md) role. For more details see [data tier allocation filtering](elasticsearch://reference/elasticsearch/index-settings/data-tier-allocation-settings.md) |
```

::::{note}

> `_tier` filtering is based on [node](asciidocalypse://docs/elasticsearch/docs/reference/elasticsearch/configuration-reference/node-settings.md) roles. Only a subset of roles are [data tier](../../../manage-data/lifecycle/data-tiers.md) roles, and the generic [data role](../../../deploy-manage/distributed-architecture/clusters-nodes-shards/node-roles.md#data-node-role) will match any tier filtering.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`_tier` filtering is based on [node](elasticsearch://reference/elasticsearch/configuration-reference/node-settings.md) roles. Only a subset of roles are [data tier](../../../manage-data/lifecycle/data-tiers.md) roles, and the generic [data role](../../../deploy-manage/distributed-architecture/clusters-nodes-shards/node-roles.md#data-node-role) will match any tier filtering.
```
